### 2020-04-02
#### The term operating system is commonly used with two different meanings:

- To denote the entire [ɪnˈtaɪər] package consisting[kənˈsɪstɪŋ] of the central software managing a computer’s resources and all of the accompanying [əˈkʌmpəni] standard software tools,such as command-line interpreters[ɪnˈtɜrprətərz], graphical user interfaces, file utilities公用事业; 实用; 效用; 有用; 实用程序; 公用程序;[juˈtɪlətiz], and editors.
- More narrowly[ˈnæroʊli], to refer to the central software that manages and allocates computer resources (i.e., the CPU, RAM, and devices).

```
fundamental 美[ˌfʌndəˈmentl]adj.十分重大的; 根本的; 基础的; 基本的; 不能再分的;n.基本规律; 根本法则; 基本原理; 基础;
allocates [ˈæləkeɪts]v.	拨…(给); 划…(归); 分配…(给);
term [tɜːrm] n.	词语; 术语; 措辞; 学期(尤用于英国，学校一年分三个学期); 期; 期限; 任期; v.把…称为; 把…叫做;

- e.g.=exempli gratia[ˈɡreɪʃə]；i.e.= id est 
- Our goods compete[kəmˈpiːt] in terms of product quality, reliability[rɪˌlaɪə'bɪləti] and above all variety[vəˈraɪəti]
- Red eyes denote[dɪˈnoʊt] strain[streɪn] and fatigue[fəˈtiːɡ]

implement  [ˈɪmplɪment , ˈɪmplɪmənt] v.	使生效; 贯彻; 执行; 实施; .	工具; 器具; (常指) 简单的户外用具;
signify	 [ˈsɪɡnɪfaɪ] v.	表示; 说明; 预示; 表达，显示(感情、意愿等); 具有重要性; 要紧;

```

#### The term kernel is often used as a synonym同义词[ˈsɪnənɪm] for the second meaning, and it is with this meaning of the term operating system that we are concerned担心的; 忧虑的; 感兴趣的; 关切的; 关注的;[kənˈsɜːrnd] in this book.

#### Although it is possible to run programs on a computer without a kernel, the presence [ˈprezns] of a kernel greatly simplifies the writing and use of other programs, and increases the power and flexibility available to programmers. The kernel does this by providing a software layer to manage the limited resources of a computer.

#### The Linux kernel executable typically [ˈtɪpɪkli] resides[rɪˈzaɪdz] at the pathname /boot/vmlinuz, or something similar.The derivation起源，由来，派生;[ˌderɪˈveɪʃn] of this filename is historical

#### Among[əˈmʌŋ] other things, the kernel performs the following tasks:

#### Linux is a preemptive[priˈɛmptɪv] multitasking operating system

####  Memory management: While computer memories are enormous[ɪˈnɔːrməs] by the standards of a decade[ˈdekeɪd] or two ago 

```
presence	[ˈprezns] n.在场; 出席; 存在; 出现; (派遣的) 一个队; (尤指执行任务的) 部队;
denote	 [dɪˈnoʊt] v.标志; 预示; 象征; 表示; 意指;
Derivation[ˌderɪˈveɪʃn] n.起源，由来，派生;
concerned担心的; 忧虑的; 感兴趣的; 关切的; 关注的;[kənˈsɜːrnd] 

, the size of software has also correspondingly grown, so that physical memory (RAM) remains a limited resource that the kernel must share among processes in an equitable[ˈekwɪtəbl] and efficient[ɪˈfɪʃnt] fashion. 
Like most modern operating systems, Linux employs[ɪmˈplɔɪz] virtual memory management (Section 6.4), a technique that confers授予[kənˈfɜːrz] two main advantages[ədˈvæntɪdʒɪz]:
```

#### Provision of a file system: The kernel provides a file system on disk, allowing files to be created, retrieved[rɪˈtriːvd], updated, deleted, and so on
```
provision	 [prəˈvɪʒn] n.提供; 供给; 给养; 供应品; (为将来做的) 准备; 饮食供应; (尤指旅途中的) 粮食; v.为…提供所需物品(尤指食物)
simultaneously 同时; 联立; 急切地[ˌsaɪməlˈteɪniəsli]
arbitrating仲裁; 公断[ˈɑːrbɪtreɪtɪŋ]
yield [jiːld] v.出产(作物); 产生(收益、效益等); 提供; 屈服; 让步; 放弃; 缴出; n.产量; 产出; 利润;
potential[pəˈtenʃl] adj.	潜在的; 可能的; n.	可能性; 潜在性; 潜力; 潜质; 电位; 电势; 电压;
aware	[əˈwer] adj.	知道; 意识到; 明白; 察觉到; 发觉; 发现; 对…有兴趣的; 有…意识的; 
halt [hɔːlt] v.	(使) 停止，停下; n.	停止; 阻止; 暂停; 小火车站(只有站台);
likelihood	 [ˈlaɪklihʊd] n.	可能; 可能性;

```
#### Process versus[ˈvɜːrsəs] kernel views of the system 
```
versus[ˈvɜːrsəs] prep.	(表示两队或双方对阵) 对，诉，对抗; (比较两种不同想法、选择等) 与…相对，与…相比;
transparent [trænsˈpærənt] adj.	透明的; 清澈的; 易识破的; 易看穿的; 显而易见的; 易懂的;
facilitate [fəˈsɪlɪteɪt] v.	促进; 促使; 使便利;
facility [fəˈsɪləti] n.	设施; 设备; (机器等的) 特别装置; (服务等的) 特色; (供特定用途的) 场所; （学习、做事的） 天资，才能，天赋;
obtain[əbˈteɪn] v.	(尤指经努力) 获得，赢得; 存在; 流行; 沿袭;
further	 [ˈfɜːrðər]
adv.	(空间距离) 较远，更远; (过去或未来) 较远，更久远; 进一步; 在更大程度上; 在更大范围内;
adj.	更多的; 更进一步的; 附加的;
v.	促进; 增进;
integral	 [ˈɪntɪɡrəl]
adj.	必需的; 不可或缺的; 作为组成部分的; 完整的; 完备的;
n.	整体; 积分;

```
#### The shell
```
merely 美[ˈmɪrli] adv.	仅仅; 只不过;
interactive [ˌɪntərˈæktɪv] adj.	合作的; 相互影响的; 互相配合的; 交互式的; 人机对话的; 互动的

```
####  Kernel mode and user mode
By taking advantage of this hardware design to place the operating system in
kernel space, operating system implementers can ensure that user processes are
not able to access the instructions and data structures of the kernel, or to perform
operations that would adversely affect the operation of the system.
```
adversely	
adv.	反而; 不利地；逆地；反对地;

```

#### 2.4 Single Directory Hierarchy, Directories, Links, and Files

```
hierarchy	 [ˈhaɪərɑːrki] n.	等级制度(尤指社会或组织); 统治集团; 层次体系;
distinguish [dɪˈstɪŋɡwɪʃ] v.	区分; 辨别; 分清; 成为…的特征; 使具有…的特色; 使有别于; 看清; 认出; 听出;

- The term *login shell* is used to denote the process that is created to run a shell 
when the user first logs in.
associated [əˈsoʊsieɪtɪd] adj.	有关联的; 相关的; 有联系的; (用于联合企业的名称) 联合的;
v.	联想; 联系; 交往; (尤指) 混在一起; 表明支持; 表示同意;
facility	 [fəˈsɪləti]
n.	设施; 设备; (机器等的) 特别装置; (服务等的) 特色; (供特定用途的) 场所; （学习、做事的） 天资，才能，天赋;

```
####  2.6 Programs
The two meanings of the term program are normally considered synonymous, since the step of compiling
and linking converts source code into semantically equivalent binary machine code.
```
semantically [sɪˈmæntɪk(ə)li] 	语义上; 语义; 在语义上; 语义地; 语意;
equivalent [ɪˈkwɪvələnt] adj.	(价值、数量、意义、重要性等) 相等的，相同的; n.	相等的东西; 等量; 对应词;

```
#### 2.7 Processes
A process is logically divided into the following parts, known as segments:
- Text: the instructions of the program.
- Data: the static variables used by the program.
- Heap: an area from which programs can dynamically allocate extra memory.
- Stack: a piece of memory that grows and shrinks as functions are called and return and that is used to allocate storage for local ariables and function call linkage information.

```
divide [dɪˈvaɪd]   v. (使)分开，分散，分割，分成…;分配;分享;分担;把(时间、精力等)分别用于 n. 不同;差异;分歧;分水岭;分水线
shrink	 [ʃrɪŋk] v.	(使) 缩水，收缩，缩小，皱缩; (使) 缩小，减少; 退缩; 畏缩; n.	精神病学家; 心理学家;
linkage	 [ˈlɪŋkɪdʒ] n.	连接; 联系; 链环; 连锁; 联动装置;

```
Process termination and termination status
By convention, a termination status of 0 indicates that the process succeeded,
and a nonzero status indicates that some error occurred. Most shells make the ter-
mination status of the last executed program available via a shell variable named $?.

Process user and group identifiers (credentials)
Each process has a number of associated user IDs (UIDs) and group IDs (GIDs).
These include:
- Real user ID and real group ID: These identify the user and group to which the
process belongs. A new process inherits these IDs from its parent. A login shell
gets its real user ID and real group ID from the corresponding fields in the sys-
tem password file.
- Effective user ID and effective group ID: These two IDs (in conjunction with the
supplementary group IDs discussed in a moment) are used in determining the
permissions that the process has when accessing protected resources such as
files and interprocess communication objects. Typically, the process’s effective
IDs have the same values as the corresponding real IDs. Changing the effective IDs
is a mechanism that allows a process to assume the privileges of another user
or group, as described in a moment.
- Supplementary group IDs: These IDs identify additional groups to which a pro-
cess belongs. A new process inherits its supplementary group IDs from its par-
ent. A login shell gets its supplementary group IDs from the system group file.
```
convention	 [kənˈvenʃn] n.	习俗; 常规; 惯例; (某职业、政党等成员的) 大会，集会; (国家或首脑间的) 公约，协定，协议;
credential	英[krəˈdenʃl] [krəˈdenʃl] v.	提供证明书(或证件);
corresponding [ˌkɔːrəˈspɑːndɪŋ] adj.	符合的; 相应的; 相关的; v.	相一致; 符合; 类似于; 相当于; 通信;
mechanism	 [ˈmekənɪzəm] n.	机械装置; 机件; 方法; 机制; (生物体内的) 机制，构造;


```
Capabilities
Since kernel 2.2, Linux divides the privileges traditionally accorded to the super-
user into a set of distinct units called capabilities. Each privileged operation is asso-
ciated with a particular capability, and a process can perform an operation only if it
has the corresponding capability. A traditional superuser process (effective user ID
of 0) corresponds to a process with all capabilities enabled.
```
apabilities [ˌkeɪpəˈbɪlətiz] n.	能力; 才能; (国家的) 军事力量，军事武器;
distinct	 [dɪˈstɪŋkt] adj.	清晰的; 清楚的; 明白的; 明显的; 截然不同的; 有区别的; 不同种类的; 确定无疑的; 确实的; 确切的;
granting	 [ˈɡræntɪŋ] v.	(尤指正式地或法律上) 同意，准予，允许; (勉强) 承认，同意;
subset	 [ˈsʌbset] n.	分组; 小组; 子集;
describe	 [dɪˈskraɪb] v.	描述; 形容; 把…称为; 做…运动; 画出…图形; 形成…形状;

```

#### The init process
When booting the system, the kernel creates a special process called init, the “parent
of all processes,” which is derived from the program file /sbin/init.all processes
on the system are created (using fork()) either by init or by one of its descendants.
```
derive [dɪˈraɪv] v.	获得; 取得; 得到; (使) 起源; (使) 产生;
descendant [dɪˈsendənt]  n. 后裔;后代;子孙;(由过去类似物发展来的)派生物
```

####  2.8 Memory Mappings
Mappings fall into two categories:
```
categories [ˈkætəˌgɔriz] n.	(人或事物的) 类别，种类;
```

